README.md, before:

![harvard-logo](http://logonoid.com/images/harvard-logo.png)

# An end to end tutorial of a machine learning pipeline

This tutorial tries to do what most Most Machine Learning tutorials available online do not. It is not a 30 minute tutorial which teaches you how to "Train your own neural netowrk" or "Learn deep learning in under 30 minutes". It's a full pipeline which you would need to do if you actually work with machine learning - introducing you to all the parts, and all the implementation decisions and details that need to be made. The dataset is not one of the standard sets like MNIST or CIFAR, you will make you very own dataset. Then you will go through a couple conventional machine learning algorithms, before finally getting to deep learning!

In the fall of 2016, I was a Teaching Fellow (Harvard's version of TA) for the graduate class on "Advanced Topics in Data Science (CS209/109)" at Harvard University. I was in-charge of designing the class project given to the students, and this tutorial has been built on top of the project I designed for the class.

# Reading/Viewing the Tutorial
To view the project as an HTML file, visit - https://spandan-madan.github.io/DeepLearningProject/

# The Code
If you would like to access to Code, please go through the ipython notebook 'Deep_Learning_Project.ipynb'

# SETUP

To make setup easy, we are going to use conda. 
- Please install conda 3 from https://www.continuum.io/downloads
- The repository has a conda config file which will make setting up super easy. It's the file 'deeplearningproject_environment.yml'
- Then create a new conda environment using the command with 'conda env create -f deeplearningproject_environment.yml'
- Now, you can activate the environment with - 'source activate deeplearningproject'

If all the installations go through, you are good to go! If not, here is a list of packages that need to be installed: requests imDbPy wget tmdbsimple seaborn sklearn Pillow keras tensorflow h5py gensim nltk stop_words

### Setting up conda environment in jupyter notebook
To be able to run the environment you just created on a juputer notebook, first check that you have the python package 'ipykernel' installed. If you don't simply install it using 'pip install ipykernel'. Now, add this to your jupyter notebook using the command 'python -m ipykernel install --user --name deeplearningproject --display-name "deeplearningproject"' 

Needless to say, remove all single quotes before running commands

# Known common bugs
I will keep updating this as issues pop up on this repository. 

- One known bug is because Keras 2.0 is not compatible with some Keras 1.2 functionalities. You may run into errors with importing VGG16. If so, just update keras using the following command - 'sudo pip install git+git://github.com/fchollet/keras.git --upgrade'


Hope this repo helps introduce you to a full machine learning pipeline! If you spot an error, please create an issue to help out others using this resource!
To prevent problems with installation and setting up, this repository comes with a conda environment profile. The only thing you will need is to install the newest version of conda, and use this profile to create a new environment and it will come set up with all the libraries you will need for the tutorial.

Commit message:

Adding DOI to make work citable

README.md, after:

![harvard-logo](http://logonoid.com/images/harvard-logo.png)
# An end to end tutorial of a machine learning pipeline

This tutorial tries to do what most Most Machine Learning tutorials available online do not. It is not a 30 minute tutorial which teaches you how to "Train your own neural netowrk" or "Learn deep learning in under 30 minutes". It's a full pipeline which you would need to do if you actually work with machine learning - introducing you to all the parts, and all the implementation decisions and details that need to be made. The dataset is not one of the standard sets like MNIST or CIFAR, you will make you very own dataset. Then you will go through a couple conventional machine learning algorithms, before finally getting to deep learning!

In the fall of 2016, I was a Teaching Fellow (Harvard's version of TA) for the graduate class on "Advanced Topics in Data Science (CS209/109)" at Harvard University. I was in-charge of designing the class project given to the students, and this tutorial has been built on top of the project I designed for the class.

# Citing if you use the work here
If you would like to use this work, please cite the work using the doi - 
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/doi/10.5281/zenodo.830003.svg)](http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.830003)

# Reading/Viewing the Tutorial
To view the project as an HTML file, visit - https://spandan-madan.github.io/DeepLearningProject/

# The Code
If you would like to access to Code, please go through the ipython notebook 'Deep_Learning_Project.ipynb'

# SETUP

To make setup easy, we are going to use conda. 
- Please install conda 3 from https://www.continuum.io/downloads
- The repository has a conda config file which will make setting up super easy. It's the file 'deeplearningproject_environment.yml'
- Then create a new conda environment using the command with 'conda env create -f deeplearningproject_environment.yml'
- Now, you can activate the environment with - 'source activate deeplearningproject'

If all the installations go through, you are good to go! If not, here is a list of packages that need to be installed: requests imDbPy wget tmdbsimple seaborn sklearn Pillow keras tensorflow h5py gensim nltk stop_words

### Setting up conda environment in jupyter notebook
To be able to run the environment you just created on a juputer notebook, first check that you have the python package 'ipykernel' installed. If you don't simply install it using 'pip install ipykernel'. Now, add this to your jupyter notebook using the command 'python -m ipykernel install --user --name deeplearningproject --display-name "deeplearningproject"' 

Needless to say, remove all single quotes before running commands

# Known common bugs
I will keep updating this as issues pop up on this repository. 

- One known bug is because Keras 2.0 is not compatible with some Keras 1.2 functionalities. You may run into errors with importing VGG16. If so, just update keras using the following command - 'sudo pip install git+git://github.com/fchollet/keras.git --upgrade'


Hope this repo helps introduce you to a full machine learning pipeline! If you spot an error, please create an issue to help out others using this resource!
To prevent problems with installation and setting up, this repository comes with a conda environment profile. The only thing you will need is to install the newest version of conda, and use this profile to create a new environment and it will come set up with all the libraries you will need for the tutorial.
